## CONLON MIDI music generator

CONLON is a pattern-based MIDI music generator with three main features:
- A novel pianoroll-like description of patterns
- Wasserstein eutoencoders as the underlying generative model
- Optimal trajectories for interpolation and swirls.

CONLON was developed as a collaborative effort between the [AI Lab](http://ai.dinfo.unifi.it) at [DINFO](http://dinfo.unifi.it), [University of Florence](https://www.unifi.it), (Italy) and [MUSI-CO](https://www.musi-co.com/), a music generation startup based in Eindhoven (the Netherlands).

This page contains additional information and data for the paper

L. Angioloni, T. Borghuis, L. Brusci, and P. Frasconi. CONLON: A Pseudo-Song Generator Based on a New Pianoroll, Wasserstein Autoencoders, and Optimal Interpolations. *In  Proceedings of the 21st International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference*, ISMIR 2020.

## Datasets
The paper comes with two novel datasets especially composed by professional musicians for this research. Datasets are made available here **exclusively for academic research purposes** and cannot be used in any commercial project. Please cite the above paper if you use these datasets in your research work.

- **ASF-4** This is a dataset in genres *Acid Jazz*, *Soul*, and *Funk*. It consists of 910 patterns of four 4/4 bars each, with four instruments: Drums, Bass, Rhodes piano, Hammond organ. [Download MIDI files](./ASF-4.tgz)

- **HP-10** This is a dataset in genres *High Pop* and *Progressive Trance*. It consists of 983 patterns of four 4/4 bars each, with ten instruments: drums, bass,
Rhodes, brass-synth, choir, dark-pad, guitar, lead, pad, and strings. [Download MIDI files](./HP-10.tgz)


## Archtecture details

We provide here a Keras `model.summary()` for the architectures used in the paper.

```
blah..
```

## Samples of generated Pseudo-songs
We provide [in this folder][./Samples/] a small set of pseudo songs generated by CONLON.

## Surveys
To validate the CONLON approach, we conducted three listening experiments with a group of 69 musicians. Here we provide the listening material and the raw survey data.

### CONLON vs. MuseGAN
- [CONLON mp3 files](./CONLON_vs_MuseGAN/CONLON/)
- [MuseGAN mp3 files](./CONLON_vs_MuseGAN/MuseGAN/)
- [Spreasheet](./CONLON_vs_MuseGAN/survey.xls)

### Pianorolls vs. CONLON pianorolls
- [Traditional pianorolls: mp3 files](./Pianorolls/Traditional/)
- [CONLON pianorolls: mp3 files](./Pianorolls/CONLON)
- [Spreasheet](./Pianorolls/survey.xls)

### Development over time
- [Swirls](./Development/Swirls/)
- [Spreasheet](./Development/survey.xls)


## Source code
We are sorry that source code cannot be provided at this time. The [WAE implementation of Ilya Tolstikhin](https://github.com/tolstikhin/wae) is a good starting point for developing the generative model.

## Acknowledments
We are grateful to Volker Böhm (Musik Akademie Basel/Fachhochschule Nordwestschweiz),  Luigi Ceccarelli (Conservatorio di Latina), Marek Choloniewski (SME studio, Music Academy of Krakow, University of Krakow), Josef Gruendler (FH Joanneum, Graz), Michał Janocha (SMEAMuz, Poznań), Marco Ligabue (Academia di Belle Arti di Firenze), Adam Stanović ( University of Sheffield), and Alla Zagaykevych (National Music Academy of Ukraine) for they valuable help in recruiting musicians who were involved in the listening surveys.
